---
date: '2015-03-09T19:37:28.000Z'
tumblr_type: text
tumblr_url: https://ddemaree.tumblr.com/post/113185569564/for-a-few-dollars-more
aliases:
  - /post/113185569564/for-a-few-dollars-more
slug: for-a-few-dollars-more
tags: []
summary: For a few dollars more
title: For a few dollars more
---

<p>Apple Watch pricing, expressed in terms of upgrades relative to other models:</p><p>Sport models only come with Sport Bands, and both the space gray and silver cost the same.<br /></p><p>The 42mm cases are always more expensive, but for us mere mortals, it’s always just a $50 premium. (Not only is the 42mm bigger, for bigger-handed people, it has a larger display. Makes sense Apple would charge more.)</p><p>Within the flagship, steel Watch collection:</p><ul><li>Naturally, for the $549/599 base price, you get a Sport Band.<br /></li><li>$100 over base price is where you get the widest selection of band options: a classic leather buckle, the Milanese loop, or the leather loop (42mm only). That is, for most people, the Apple Watch price worth noting is $649 for 38mm, or $699 for 42mm.</li><li>For $200 over base price, you can get the Modern Buckle, which looks like a traditional watch band, but with some magnet-y Apple magic.</li><li>Finally, not too surprisingly, the all-steel link bracelets are the most expensive: $400 over base price for the silver one, or $500 for the all-black version.</li></ul><p>Finally, the Apple Watch Edition. The simplest, most honest way to express this upgrade is that you get a gold watch for <i>WHAT THE FUCK</i> dollars more. It's not really worth expressing those prices in terms of upgrades <i>from a normal Apple Watch.</i>&nbsp;Within the Edition family, it's $2,000 extra for 42mm. A classic buckle adds $5,000 to the price.&nbsp;Modern Buckles add $7,000. The whole range tops out at $17,000 for a 38mm Watch with a Modern Buckle.</p><p>One of the fun things about the Watch is not having to choose just one band. <a href="http://store.apple.com/us/watch/watch-accessories">You can buy extras</a> and switch them out. Just be careful to note that <i>several watch bands come in different sizes</i>, but different sizes don't seem to add anything to the price.&nbsp;</p><p>Of course, the one upgrade many of us will definitely want/need: an extra power cord. That'll be $29 for a 1m cord, $39 for a 2m one.</p><p>Just make sure you're not trying to charge it from <a href="http://store.apple.com/us/buy-mac/macbook">one of those new MacBooks</a>. They don't even&nbsp;<i>have</i>&nbsp;normal USB ports.</p>