---
date: '2015-02-05T16:08:08.000Z'
tumblr_type: text
tumblr_url: https://ddemaree.tumblr.com/post/110166082604/a-dilemma
aliases:
  - /post/110166082604/a-dilemma
slug: a-dilemma
tags: []
summary: A dilemma
title: A dilemma
---

<p>Now I have two laptops.</p>

<p>My MacBook Pro is relatively huge, but not that big, and it does absolutely everything I could want it to do, in style.</p>

<p>My Surface Pro is smaller, thinner, and lighter. It does <i>virtually</i> everything—certainly anything involving documents or that can be done in a web browser—plus a couple of tricks my Mac can&#8217;t do, e.g. the pen stuff.</p>

<p>I made a list of all my work tasks for the day, and for the life of me, I couldn&#8217;t think of anything I need to do that I couldn&#8217;t do on the Surface. There are a few things I&#8217;d have done in native apps on my Mac that I&#8217;d do instead in a browser on Windows, but everything I need to do is doable.</p>

<p><i>And yet</i> there are things I might want to do today that aren&#8217;t as accessible on Windows as I would like.</p>

<p>Most of these are coding-type tasks. Even though I&#8217;m a product manager and rarely contribute code to Typekit (and rarely have time to do any coding on my own account), I still keep a full development environment around, and sometimes will research an API or an approach to a work problem by opening up a text editor and exploring the code myself.</p>

<p>I <i>could</i> do this stuff on Windows. My editor (Sublime Text) has a very good Windows version, and GitHub makes an excellent Windows Git client, which includes not only a command-line Git but virtually a full Unix-y shell environment. (BTW, pro tip: if you need SSH on Windows, and you use GitHub, the GitHub for Windows client will add a SSH client to your regular Windows command prompt.) Failing all else, there&#8217;s a Windows version of Vagrant—I could fall back to Linux, running in a virtual machine.</p>

<p>Other stuff is less essential. I often make wireframes or diagrams in Sketch or OmniGraffle—both Mac-only, both made by small, indie developers for whom making a Windows version would be a poor use of their time—but I could make them in Google Drawings instead. I have some outlines saved in MindNode, but at some point they need to move into a word processor. But I&#8217;m used to doing this stuff on a Mac, or at least on iOS.</p>

<p>Finally, I know how to type em dashes (—), ellipses (…), and other special characters (™, ®, , emoji) on my Mac. I&#8217;ve confirmed you <i>can&#8217;t</i> type them on the Surface keyboard. For all I know, this could be a good excuse to cut back on the number of em dashes I use in my writing, but Opt-Shift-dash is a hard habit to break.</p>

<p>Then there are the habits I&#8217;ve changed by spending more time in Windows. I had been keeping to-do lists in Things, a Mac-and-iOS-only app; I&#8217;m now gradually starting to move into Wunderlist, which is available on tons of platforms, has excellent Chrome extensions, and which has the best Windows 8 native app I&#8217;ve seen to date. Speaking of Chrome, I&#8217;m spending more time in there as well, saving more passwords to my Google account, and making more use of Google&#8217;s syncing. (I&#8217;m still using Safari on iOS, and it&#8217;s still the default on my Mac, but fortunately Apple makes an iCloud bookmark syncing extension for Chrome on Windows.)</p>

<p>For today, I&#8217;m choosing to solve this problem with my back: <i>I&#8217;m just gonna carry both</i>, and see which one I pull out more. I expect I&#8217;ll use the Surface for writing and meetings. I may not pull out the MacBook at all. If that&#8217;s the case, next time, it won&#8217;t go in the bag.</p>